Incremental strategies (#7655)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/incremental-strategy.md

Before diving into [custom strategies](#custom-strategies), it's important to understand the built-in incremental strategies in dbt and their corresponding macros:

| `incremental_strategy` | Corresponding macro                                                 |
|------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|

> |[`append`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#about-the-incremental-strategies)|`get_incremental_append_sql`|

Reviewer: Update links once H5s are added

> |[`append`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#about-the-incremental-strategies)|`get_incremental_append_sql`|

Author: ```suggestion
|[`append`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#append)|`get_incremental_append_sql`|
```

> |[`delete+insert`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#about-the-incremental-strategies)| `get_incremental_delete_insert_sql`|

Author: ```suggestion
|[`delete+insert`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#deleteinsert)| `get_incremental_delete_insert_sql`|
```

> |[`merge` ](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#about-the-incremental-strategies)|`get_incremental_merge_sql`|

Author: ```suggestion
|[`merge` ](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#merge)|`get_incremental_merge_sql`|
```

> |[`insert_overwrite`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#about-the-incremental-strategies)|`get_incremental_insert_overwrite_sql`|

Author: ```suggestion
|[`insert_overwrite`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#insert_overwrite)|`get_incremental_insert_overwrite_sql`|
```

> |[`microbatch`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#about-the-incremental-strategies) | `get_incremental_microbatch_sql`       |

Author: ```suggestion
|[`microbatch`](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#microbatch) | `get_incremental_microbatch_sql`       |
```

select * from {{ ref("some_model") }}
```

> #### About the incremental strategies

Reviewer: The wording used here is almost the same as the title of the page. Can we update this to something more specific like "Built-in incremental strategies"?

> #### About the incremental strategies

Author: ```suggestion
#### About built-in incremental strategies
```

> **`append`**

Reviewer: I suggest to make these headers H5 so that we can also directly link to each subsection from the `incremental_strategy` table:
```suggestion
##### `append`
```

Reviewer: > I suggest to make these headers H5 so that we can also directly link to each subsection from the `incremental_strategy` table:

Hi @nataliefiann ! Please apply this to all incremental_strategies and update the links in the table to point directly to each subsection.

> The `append` strategy is simple to implement and has low processing costs. It inserts selected records into the destination table without updating or deleting existing data. This strategy doesn’t align directly with type 1 or type 2 [Slow Changing Dimensions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slowly_changing_dimension) (SCD). It differs from SCD1, which overwrites existing records, and only loosely resembles SCD2. While it adds new rows (like SCD2), but it doesn’t manage versioning or track historical changes explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `append` strategy is simple to implement and has low processing costs. It inserts selected records into the destination table without updating or deleting existing data. This strategy doesn’t align directly with type 1 or type 2 [slowly changing dimensions](https://www.thoughtspot.com/data-trends/data-modeling/slowly-changing-dimensions-in-data-warehouse) (SCD). It differs from SCD1, which overwrites existing records, and only loosely resembles SCD2. While it adds new rows (like SCD2), it doesn’t manage versioning or track historical changes explicitly.
```
Is it possible to use a different reference page for SCDs?

Importantly, `append` doesn't check for duplicates or verify whether a record already exists in the destination. If the same record appears multiple times in the source, it will be inserted again, potentially resulting in duplicate rows. This may not be an issue depending on your use case and data quality requirements.

> **`delete+insert`**

Author: ```suggestion
##### `delete+insert`
```

> The `delete+insert` strategy deletes the data for unique keys from the target table and then inserts the data for those unique keys, which may be less efficient for larger datasets. It ensures updated records are fully replaced, avoiding partial updates and can be useful when unique keys are not truly unique or when `merge` is unsupported.

Author: ```suggestion
The `delete+insert` strategy deletes the data for the `unique_key` from the target table and then inserts the data for those with a `unique_key`, which may be less efficient for larger datasets. It ensures updated records are fully replaced, avoiding partial updates and can be useful when a `unique_key` isn't truly unique or when `merge` is unsupported.
```

> The `delete+insert` strategy deletes the data for those unique keys from the target table and then inserts the data for those unique keys (this may prove to be less efficient for larger datasets). It ensures updated records are fully replaced, avoiding partial updates and can be useful when unique keys are not truly unique or when `merge` is unsupported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `delete+insert` strategy deletes the data for unique keys from the target table and then inserts the data for those unique keys, which may be less efficient for larger datasets. It ensures updated records are fully replaced, avoiding partial updates and can be useful when unique keys are not truly unique or when `merge` is unsupported.
```

> `delete+insert` doesn't map directly to SCD logic (type 1 or 2) as it overwrites data and tracks history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`delete+insert` doesn't map directly to SCD logic (type 1 or 2) because it overwrites data and tracks history.
```

For SCD2, use [dbt snapshots](/docs/build/snapshots#what-are-snapshots), not `delete+insert`.

> **`merge`**

Author: ```suggestion
*##### `merge`
```

> *##### `merge`

Author: ```suggestion
##### `merge`
```

> `merge` inserts records with unique keys that don’t exist yet in the destination table and updates records with keys that do exist &mdash; mirroring the logic of SCD1, where changes are overwritten rather than historically tracked.

Author: ```suggestion
`merge` inserts records with a `unique_key` that don’t exist yet in the destination table and updates records with keys that do exist &mdash; mirroring the logic of SCD1, where changes are overwritten rather than historically tracked.
```

> `merge` inserts records with unique keys that don’t yet exist in the destination table and updates records with keys that do exist &mdash; mirroring the logic of SCD1, where changes are overwritten rather than historically tracked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`merge` inserts records with unique keys that don’t exist yet in the destination table and updates records with keys that do exist &mdash; mirroring the logic of SCD1, where changes are overwritten rather than historically tracked.
```

This strategy shouldn't be confused with `delete+insert` which deletes matching records before inserting new ones. 

> By specifying a `unique key` (which can be composed of one or more columns), `merge` can also help resolve duplicates. If the unique key already exists in the destination table, `merge` will update the record, so you won't have duplicates, and if the records don’t exist, `merge` will insert them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By specifying a `unique_key` (which can be composed of one or more columns), `merge` can also help resolve duplicates. If the `unique_key` already exists in the destination table, `merge` will update the record, so you won't have duplicates. If the records don’t exist, `merge` will insert them.
```
`unique key` is not consistent -- should this word have backticks?

> Note, if you use `merge` without specifying a unique key, it behaves like the `append` strategy. However, it is required to use a unique key with `merge` for adapters like BigQuery.

Author: ```suggestion
Note, if you use `merge` without specifying a `unique_key`, it behaves like the `append` strategy. However, it is required to use a `unique_key` with `merge` for adapters like BigQuery.
```

> Note, if you use `merge` without specifying a unique key, it behaves like the `append` strategy. However, adapters such as BigQuery, make it complusory to use a unique key with `merge`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, if you use `merge` without specifying a unique key, it behaves like the `append` strategy. However, it is required to use a unique key with `merge` for adapters like BigQuery.
```

> While the `merge` strategy is powerful for keeping tables current, it's best suited for smaller tables or incremental datasets. For large tables, it can be expensive, since it typically scans the entire destination table to determine what to update or insert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the `merge` strategy is useful for keeping tables current, it's best suited for smaller tables or incremental datasets. It can be expensive for large tables because it scans the entire destination table to determine what to update or insert.
```

> **`insert_overwrite`**

Author: ```suggestion
##### `insert_overwrite`
```

> The [`insert_overwrite](https://downloads.apache.org/spark/docs/3.1.1/sql-ref-syntax-dml-insert-overwrite-table.html) strategy is used to efficiently update partitioned tables by replacing entire partitions with new data, rather than merging or updating individual rows. It overwrites only the affected partitions, not the whole table. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`insert_overwrite`](https://downloads.apache.org/spark/docs/3.1.1/sql-ref-syntax-dml-insert-overwrite-table.html) strategy is used to efficiently update partitioned tables by replacing entire partitions with new data, rather than merging or updating individual rows. It overwrites only the affected partitions, not the whole table. 
```

Because it is designed for partitioned data and replaces entire partitions wholesale, it does not align with typical SCD logic, which tracks row-level history or changes.

It's ideal for tables partitioned by date or another key and useful for refreshing recent or corrected data without full table rebuilds.

> **`microbatch`**

Author: ```suggestion
##### `microbatch`
```

>  [`microbatch`](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#what-is-microbatch-in-dbt) is an incremental strategy designed for processing large time-series datasets by splitting the data into time-based batches (for example, daily or hourly) and it supports [parallel batch execution](/docs/build/parallel-batch-execution#how-parallel-batch-execution-works) for faster runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`microbatch`](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch#what-is-microbatch-in-dbt) is an incremental strategy designed for processing large time-series datasets by splitting the data into time-based batches (for example, daily or hourly). It supports [parallel batch execution](/docs/build/parallel-batch-execution#how-parallel-batch-execution-works) for faster runs.
```

> For details on which incremental strategies are supported by each adapter, refer to the section [Supported incremental strategies by adapter](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#supported-incremental-strategies-by-adapter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on which incremental strategies are supported by each adapter, refer to the section [Supported incremental strategies by adapter](/docs/build/incremental-strategy#supported-incremental-strategies-by-adapter).
```
